Fedora i3 SIG :page-authors: {author}

Did you find a bug on i3 in Fedora? Not sure where to take your
feedback? This page explains where you should go with bugs, feature
requests, and other feedback about i3 on Fedora.

Bugs about i3 *itself* should be reported upstream

:   [github.com/i3/i3/issues](https://github.com/i3/i3/issues)

Sometimes things do not work the way you expect in i3. Like any
software, bugs exist. The i3 community is good at addressing bugs and
adding new features.

Use the i3 GitHub issue tracker to take feedback and report bugs
directly to the i3 team. This will get you the fastest turn-around if a
bug lies with i3.

Report bugs with the Fedora `i3` package to Red Hat Bugzilla

:   [How to file a Fedora Bugzilla bug](#quick-docs::howto-file-a-bug/)

The `i3` package in Fedora (and other related packages) aim to follow
upstream as much as possible. However, sometimes there are differences
with upstream and the [Fedora Packaging
Guidelines](packaging-guidelines::index.xml). If you suspect a problem
exists with the Fedora `i3` package, but not i3 itself, you need to
alert the Fedora package maintainer.

Use Red Hat Bugzilla to report a Fedora package bug to the responsible
Fedora maintainer. The Fedora maintainer may also refer the problem
upstream if it is warranted.

Make suggestions and report problems with the official Fedora i3 Spin on Pagure

:   [pagure.io/i3-sig/Fedora-i3-Spin/issues](https://pagure.io/i3-sig/Fedora-i3-Spin/issues)

This only applies to people using the official Fedora i3 `.iso`, either
built manually by the Fedora i3 SIG or automatically by Fedora
Infrastructure.

Does something look wrong? Could something be better tweaked or
customized for a default i3 install? Or is there a related software that
is not yet packaged officially in Fedora? For all concerns, ideas, and
issues with the look-and-feel and default options of the i3 Spin, open a
ticket with the Fedora i3 SIG on Pagure.

The Fedora i3 Spin Pagure repo is the best place to get the attention of
the wider i3 community in Fedora, and get feedback on ideas and
suggestions from other i3 users. Justin W. Flory, Fedora i3 SIG
:page-authors: {author}

This page documents Design Goals the SIG always considers to the Fedora
i3 Spin. This explains what the Fedora i3 SIG prioritizes and focuses on
when working on the Spin.

These Design Goals were first discussed in the [2020-07-21 SIG
meeting](https://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/fedora-i3/2020-07-21/i3.2020-07-21-16.06.log.html#l-98).
A first draft was proposed in
[i3-sig/Fedora-i3-Spin#10](https://pagure.io/i3-sig/Fedora-i3-Spin/issue/10#comment-666646).

**The Fedora i3 Spin will choose simplicity over complexity.**

Just because i3 is a Window Manager does not mean it needs to be
difficult to do basic computing tasks (e.g. work on a document, connect
to the Internet, connect Bluetooth headphones, etc.).

**The Fedora i3 Spin will choose to be fast, lean, and quick instead of
full of features.**

We know i3wm is used by people on a variety of hardware, including
low-end consumer-grade hardware. We also acknowledge advanced i3wm users
often have their own preferences for extra applications. The Fedora i3
Spin should work fast and quick on a variety of consumer hardware.

**The Fedora i3 Spin will choose to maintain a single obvious way to do
basic computing tasks.**

For example, bundling two document-editing suites or network connection
managers is confusing and disruptive to the user experience. It should
be comfortable to use Fedora i3 Spin if you are an experienced Linux
user, but new to i3 or window managers.

**The Fedora i3 Spin will choose to try out and experiment with new
ideas.**

This helps us collect data and info about what to keep doing and what to
do less of. Even when we make a mistake, we will address it as
expediently as possible, and then keep moving forward.

Fedora i3 SIG \<<i3wm@lists.fedoraproject.org>\> :toc:

This page documents the kickstart files used for composing Fedora i3
Spin release images. Kickstart files are used by build automation to
compose build assets, like ISOs.

Create and maintain a kickstart for composes of Fedora with i3 as its
default environment.

Coming soon!

Complete the following steps to build a local ISO of the Fedora i3 Spin.

Install dependencies

:   `sudo dnf install -y lorax pykickstart`

Clone Spin repository

:   `git clone https://pagure.io/fedora-kickstarts.git`

Flatten the kickstart

:   `sudo ksflatten -c fedora-live-i3.ks -o flatten-i3.ks`

Build ISO using Lorax

:   `sudo livemedia-creator --make-iso --ks flatten-i3.ks --no-virt --iso-only --iso-name fedora-i3-live-x86_64.iso --releasever 34`

Create a QEMU virtual machine with the new ISO

:   `qemu-kvm -m 2048 -vga qxl -cdrom fedora-i3-live-x86_64.iso`

:::: note
::: title
:::

When `--releasever` is not specified, it defaults to the current system
version.
::::

There are many other ways to build ISOs. This documentation uses Lorax
since this is used in Fedora build infrastructure. Try these other ways
of building the ISO if you prefer other tooling

``` {#build-iso--livecd .sh}
sudo livecd-creator --verbose --config=flat-i3.ks --fslabel=Fedora-i3-live --releasever=33 --cache=./cache/live --title=Fedora-i3-Spin
```

Added the official kickstart repo.

Added first steps on building the ISO locally,

We now have a flat i3 with lightdm-gtk as a Display manager and the live
works fine on QEMU/KVM. The ks is initially brached off from XFCE and
hence still have some bits that needs to be removed without breaking the
live. The respin seems to cause some issues while installing with
`liveinst` on urxvt with a GTK erorr.

For now, we've started with flattening/forking two widely used spins:
`xfce` and `lxde` and adding the i3 packages there to ensure stability
among packages. A compose build was made as `F32-20200615` with the help
of folks from the Respins SiG.

The kickstart files that are available are:

- `flat-i3-lxde.ks` which is flattened from `flat-live-lxde.ks` which we
  branched for F32 instead of rawhide.

- `flat-i3-xfce.ks` whichi is flattened from `flat-live-xfce.ks` which
  is also branched for F32.

Both of them were modified in order to add the
[i3-minimal](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/SIGs/i3/Brainstorm#i3-minimal)
packages along with the packages used by the specific DE.

Fedora i3 SIG \<<i3wm@lists.fedoraproject.org>\> :page-authors: {author}
:toc:

A founding goal for the Fedora i3 SIG is to create an official Package
Group that is a base installation for an i3 workstation. Ideas for
packages are below.

These are packages that will be installed by `sudo dnf install @i3`. It
will include a minimal number of packages to provide a common \"base\"
for an i3 workstation.

These packages are required to get i3 working minimally.

- `i3`

- `i3lock`

- `i3status`

- `dmenu`

- `dunst` (notifications)

- `lightdm` (display manager)

- Group: `@base-x`

- urxvt (virtual terminal)

<!-- -->

- `nmcli`

- `network-manager-applet`

- `firefox` (web browser)

<!-- -->

- `pactl`

- `pauvcontrol`

- `volumeicon`

TBD.

- `xbrightlight` (laptop backlight control)

- `htop` (monitoring system)

- `azote` (wallpaper management)

- `mousepad` (text editor)

- `thunar` (file browsing)

This package group provides a set of extended utilities, applications,
or other useful tools. Some i3 users may prefer or expect these tools in
an installation, but they are not required to use i3. This package group
can improve the user experience of using i3.

- `rofi`

- `morc`

<!-- -->

- `powertop`

<!-- -->

- `arandr`

- `conky`

- `i3status-rs`

- `font-awesome`

- `alacritty`

- `tmux`

- `xarchiver`

- `qutebrowser`

- `st` (need to choose between alacritty and st)

- `py3status`

- `nitrogen`

- `lxappearance` (GUI theming app)

**Q:** Can I see a built preview of this template to get a better idea
about the result?

**A:** Of course you can! Just look at the *Local Preview* section of
the repository [README](https://pagure.io/i3-sig/docs) --- it should
tell you everything.

**Q:** Is writing documentation hard and dreadful?

**A:** Absolutely not. Writing documentation in asciidoc is very simple
and straighforward. And in fact, writing documentation makes you very
happy. Just try and see for yourself! Start with the [Documentation
Guide](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/fedora-docs/contributing/).
Nasir Hussain, Fedora i3 SIG :page-authors: {author}

The Fedora i3 SIG (Special Interest Group) team meets every 2 weeks in
Fedora i3 SIG's [Communication
Channels](https://docs.fedoraproject.org/en-US/i3/#_communication) at
16:00 UTC on Tuesdays. The calendar for future meetings is available
[here](https://apps.fedoraproject.org/calendar/meeting/9768). Meetings
logs are available at
[Meetbot](https://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/sresults/?group_id=i3&type=team).
As part of the Fedora Project, the i3 SIG uses
[zodbot](https://fedoraproject.org/wiki/Zodbot) with the
[supybot-meetbot](http://meetbot.debian.net/Manual.html). Commands for
both, zodbot and meetbot works on our meetings.

- Ping i3-sig Members on the channel by sending `.members i3-sig` on the
  IRC channel before the meeting.

- Type `#startmeeting Fedora i3 (YYYY-MM-DD)`

- `#meetingname i3`

- `#topic roll call`

Wait for 2-4 minutes for people to check in for the roll call.

- `#chair` all the people present for the meeting

- `#topic Action items from last meeting`

Find the last meeting log from
[meetbot](https://meetbot-raw.fedoraproject.org/teams/i3/) and post the
action items in the meeting for people to update the status of.

- After they are done, fetch the agenda sent on the mailing list

Do the following for each topic:

- `#topic` Topic Subject

- `#link` link (If any are provided on the Mailing list thread)

During the meeting, you can five people action items for them to
complete:

- `#action <nickname>` description of what needs to be done

When all topics are over, go for open floor:

- `#topic Open Floor`

After open floor, end the meeting.

- `#endmeeting`

Then, when convenient:

- Send an emails to <i3wm@lists.fedoraproject.org> with the details of
  the meeting from [meetbot
  page](https://meetbot.fedoraproject.org/sresults/?group_id=i3&type=team).
  Minutes in textual format are directly available using `.txt` as URL
  extension. It's easiest to get the Minutes/Minutes (text)/Log URLs by
  copying the footer that Meetbot prints after `#endmeeting`. You can
  see examples in the
  [archives](https://lists.fedoraproject.org/archives/list/i3wm@lists.fedoraproject.org/);
  The usual format follows:

``` text
Subject: Fedora i3 SIG Meeting Minutes year-mm-dd

Body:

Minutes: <URL to meetbot .html>
Minutes (text): <URL to meetbot .txt>
Log: <URL to meetbot .log.html>

<Copy/paste content of meetbot .txt>
```

Thank you for running the meeting.
